---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 💀 NIST


Organizations use frameworks as a starting point to develop plans that mitigate risks, threats, and vulnerabilities to sensitive data and assets. Fortunately, there are organizations worldwide that create frameworks security professionals can use to develop those plans.

#### NIST CSF

The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk. This framework is widely respected and essential for maintaining security regardless of the organization you work for. The CSF consists of five important core functions, identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover.

###  The Five Functions of the NIST CSF

NIST CSF focuses on five core functions: identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover. These core functions help organizations manage cybersecurity risks, implement risk management strategies, and learn from previous mistakes. Basically, when it comes to security operations, NIST CSF functions are key for making sure an organization is protected against potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. So let's take a little time to explore how each function can be used to improve an organization's security.

`Identify:` The first core function is identify, which is related to the management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization's, people and assets. For example, as a security analyst, you may be asked to monitor systems and devices in your organization's internal network to identify potential security issues, like compromised devices on the network.

`Protect:` The second core function is protect, which is the strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats. For example, as a security analyst, you and your team might encounter new and unfamiliar threats and attacks. For this reason, studying historical data and making improvements to policies and procedures is essential.

`Detect:` The third core function is detect, which means identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections. For example, as an analyst, you might be asked to review a new security tool's setup to make sure it's flagging low, medium, or high risk, and then alerting the security team about any potential threats or incidents.

`Respond:` The fourth function is respond, which means making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process. As an analyst, you could be working with a team to collect and organize data to document an incident and suggest improvements to processes to prevent the incident from happening again.

`Recover:` The fifth core function is recover, which is the process of returning affected systems back to normal operation. For example, as an entry-level security analyst, you might work with your security team to restore systems, data, and assets, such as financial or legal files, that have been affected by an incident like a breach.
