---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 💀 NIST’s Risk Management Framework



There are seven steps in the RMF:  prepare, categorize, select, implement, assess, authorize, and monitor.

### Prepare
Prepare refers to activities that are necessary to manage security and privacy risks before a breach occurs. As an entry-level analyst, you'll likely use this step to monitor for risks and identify controls that can be used to reduce those risks.

### Categorize
Step two is categorize, which is used to develop risk management processes and tasks. Security professionals then use those processes and develop tasks by thinking about how the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems and information can be impacted by risk. As an entry-level analyst, you'll need to be able to understand how to follow the processes established by your organization to reduce risks to critical assets, such as private customer information.

### Select
Step three is select. Select means to choose, customize, and capture documentation of the controls that protect an organization. An example of the select step would be keeping a playbook up-to-date or helping to manage other documentation that allows you and your team to address issues more efficiently.

### Implement
Step four is to implement security and privacy plans for the organization. Having good plans in place is essential for minimizing the impact of ongoing security risks. For example, if you notice a pattern of employees constantly needing password resets, implementing a change to password requirements may help solve this issue.

### Assess
Step five is assess. Assess means to determine if established controls are implemented correctly. An organization always wants to operate as efficiently as possible. So it's essential to take the time to analyze whether the implemented protocols, procedures, and controls that are in place are meeting organizational needs. During this step, analysts identify potential weaknesses and determine whether the organization's tools, procedures, controls, and protocols should be changed to better manage potential risks.

### Authorize
Step six is authorize. Authorize means being accountable for the security and privacy risks that may exist in an organization. As an analyst, the authorization step could involve generating reports, developing plans of action, and establishing project milestones that are aligned to your organization's security goals.

### Monitor
Step seven is monitor. Monitor means to be aware of how systems are operating. Assessing and maintaining technical operations are tasks that analysts complete daily. Part of maintaining a low level of risk for an organization is knowing how the current systems support the organization's security goals. If the systems in place don't meet those goals, changes may be needed.

Although it may not be your job to establish these procedures, you will need to make sure they're working as intended so that risks to the organization itself, and the people it serves, are minimized.