---
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Common and Fundamental commands

#### Navigating Directories

1.  `pwd`: Prints the current directory path.
2.  `ls`: Lists all files and directories in the current directory.
3.  `cd`: Changes the current directory.
4. `pushd`: Saves the current directory and changes to a new directory. You can think of it like saying "remember this place, and then go to this other place."
5.  `popd`: Changes back to the directory you saved with `pushd`. It's like saying "go back to the place I remembered."

#### File and Directory Operations

4.  `touch`: Creates a new, empty file.
5.  `cp`: Copies a file or directory from one place to another.
6.  `mv`: Moves a file or directory from one place to another. It can also be used to rename files or directories.
7.  `rm`: Deletes a file or directory.
8.  `mkdir`: Creates a new directory.
9.  `rmdir`: Deletes an empty directory.

#### File Viewing and Searching

10.  `cat`: Prints the contents of a file to the screen.
11.  `less` or `more`: Allows you to read through a file page by page.
12.  `head`: Shows the beginning of a file.
13.  `tail`: Shows the end of a file.
14.  `grep`: Searches for a specific pattern in a file or files.
15.  `find`: Searches for files and directories.

#### Other Utilities

26.  `echo`: Prints its arguments to the screen.
27.  `man`: Displays the manual page for a command.
28.  `sudo`: Executes a command as another user, typically the superuser.
29.  `exit`: Closes the terminal or ends a terminal session.
30.  `history`: Shows the command history.

#### Text Editors

31.  `nano`: A simple text editor.
32.  `vi`: A widely-used text editor.
33.  `emacs`: A powerful text editor.