---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 💀 Frameworks and Controls


`Security frameworks:` Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy, such as social engineering attacks and ransomware. Security involves more than just the virtual space. It also includes the physical, which is why many organizations have plans to maintain safety in the work environment. For example, access to a building may require using a key card or badge.

So frameworks can be used to create plans that increase employee awareness and educate them about how they can protect the organization, their co-workers, and themselves. Educating employees about existing security challenges is essential for minimizing the possibility of a breach.

`Security Controls:` Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. In this video, we'll discuss three common types of controls: encryption, authentication, and authorization.

### Types of Security Controls

`Encryption:` Encryption is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Typically, encryption involves converting data from plaintext to ciphertext. Ciphertext is the raw, encoded message that's unreadable to humans and computers. Ciphertext data cannot be read until it's been decrypted into its original plaintext form. Encryption is used to ensure confidentiality of sensitive data, such as customers' account information or social security numbers.

`Authentication:` Authentication is the process of verifying who someone or something is. A real-world example of authentication is logging into a website with your username and password. This basic form of authentication proves that you know the username and password and should be allowed to access the website. More advanced methods of authentication, such as multi-factor authentication, or MFA, challenge the user to demonstrate that they are who they claim to be by requiring both a password and an additional form of authentication, like a security code or biometrics, such as a fingerprint, voice, or face scan.

`Authorization:`  Authorization refers to the concept of granting access to specific resources within a system. Essentially, authorization is used to verify that a person has permission to access a resource. As an example, if you're working as an entry-level security analyst for the federal government, you could have permission to access data through the deep web or other internal data that is only accessible if you're a federal employee.


### **Controls**

Controls are used alongside frameworks to reduce the possibility and impact of a security threat, risk, or vulnerability. Controls can be physical, technical, and administrative and are typically used to prevent, detect, or correct security issues.

Examples of physical controls:

- Gates, fences, and locks
- Security guards
- Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors
- Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

Examples of technical controls:

- Firewalls
- MFA
- Antivirus software

Examples of administrative controls:

- Separation of duties
- Authorization
- Asset classification
